sixty minutes overtime this all started
with George Lucas he had a problem now
to describe his problem let me digress a
little bit when you make a copy of an
audio cassette tape let's say an analog
copy of an audio recording you get noise
artifacts hiss right we've all
experienced that well the same thing
happens when you make a analog copy or
an optical copy of a piece of film if
you copy optically one piece of film to
another you get hiss if you will and in
this case the noise artifacts are visual
you get a dirty frame
well when George was making the original
Star Wars he had to combine many many
pieces of film together to make one
frame some with the models some with the
matte paintings some with the human
character some with the special effects
and by the time he got through combining
all these pieces of film to make just
one frame of his movie it was dirty and
he being the genius that he was thought
I wonder if I could if I combined them
digitally if they could be totally clean
because when you make a digital copy of
an analogue recording it's perfect and
it turns out if you make a digital copy
of a piece of film it's perfect sharp
clearer sharper clearer without the
noise artifacts so George hired this guy
named Ed Catmull who was at the New York
Institute of Technology to come out and
build a computer group for him and to
figure out how to solve this problem and
they did and George was the first one to
ever do this and after this problem was
solved George decided that he'd solved
this problem and he he could he decided
he would sell this computer group and I
ended up buying them I met ed and Edie
told me his dream was to to make the
world's first computer animated film and
I bought into that dream both sort of
spiritually and financially and together
we started Pixar in 1986 60 minutes over
time my model of business is the Beatles
you know they were four very talented
guys who kept each other's kind of
negative tendencies in check they
balanced each other and and the sum was
greater than
the total was greater than the sum of
the parts and that's how I see business
you know great great things in business
are never done by one person they're
done by it they're done by a team of
people and and we've got that here at
Pixar and we've got that at Apple as
well and so that's that's what lets me
do this well you know what the Beatles
when they were together they did truly
brilliant innovative work and when they
split up they did good work but it was
it was never the same
and I I see business that way too it's
really always a team 60 minutes overtime
well as a person what's your biggest
strength I've been very lucky in meeting
incredibly talented people and and
hanging out with them and so that's been
my greatest strength and what's your
biggest weakness
you know I think all of us all of us
need to be on guard against arrogance
which which knocks at the door whenever
you're successful have you lived through
that oh sure sure
now by that correct me if I'm wrong get
an incredible high with the initial
success of Apple and then other
competitors get in and it's so pretty
well as you you may know I was basically
fired from Apple when I was thirty and
and and was invited to come back twelve
years later so so that was that was
difficult when it happened but maybe the
best thing that ever happened to me
there wouldn't be a Pixar if that hadn't
happened and so you know you just you
move on life goes on and you learn from
it we're at the end here but you were
fired from Apple lynda.30
asked to come back when you were what 42
did you think that moment how sweet it
is no I thought at that moment what you
know what a circle of life you know life
is just always mysterious and surprising
and you never know what's around the
next corner so 60 minutes overtime
thanks for coming today let's talk about
Steve Jobs the person but gradually
judged I like working with people that
make products that will get used or
experienced by a lot of people where you
have a chance to in a very small way
influence how things go influence the
way people look at at a product or or
maybe even the world in a small way and
I I'm very lucky I get to do that at
Apple that's what it looks like very
thin you know I still believe that the
computer business is in its infancy that
there's a tremendous amount more of a
tremendous amount of innovation that's
going to be coming out I'm optimistic as
to the future of the computer business